# RFC-0006 20x Phase One Key Security Indicators

> - Status: Closed
> - Created By: FedRAMP PMO
> - Start Date: 2025-04-24
> - Closing Date: 2025-05-24
> - Short Name: rfc-0006-key-security-indicators

## Where to Comment

This RFC is no longer open for public comment. 


## Summary

FedRAMP’s 20x Phase One Key Security Indicators creates an abstraction layer to
summarize the security capabilities expected of a cloud-native service offering
to meet FedRAMP Low authorization requirements. These indicators align to NIST
SP 800-53 controls and form a baseline equivalent.

These Key Security Indicators will be updated after public comment and
formalized for use in the FedRAMP 20x Phase One Pilot to grant FedRAMP Low
authorizations. During Phase Two, Key Security Indicators will be expanded for
FedRAMP Moderate authorizations.

Authorization packages based on Key Security Indicators must be
machine-readable, supported by evidence, and should include automated technical
validation whenever possible.

## Motivation and Rationale

FedRAMP 20x describes key goals for a new assessment approach that is being
designed by FedRAMP in collaboration with industry stakeholders and agency
experts. Automation efforts have historically focused on automating the
production of documentation materials to be used in an assessment, but the
FedRAMP Authorization Act requires FedRAMP to establish a means for the
“automation of security assessments and reviews.” FedRAMP asserts that
automatically producing and reviewing documentation alone will not meet this
requirement.

FedRAMP 20x encourages the development of truly automated security assessment
with continuous validation and enforcement by following NIST guidance to focus
on required security capabilities. This initial release will serve as a
foundation for the FedRAMP 20x pilot program, allowing us to refine the approach
based on real-world implementation before expanding to additional service types
and impact levels.

## Explanation

The full draft standard is approximately 5 pages and is available for review in
the following formats:

- [Basic web formatting on fedramp.gov](https://fedramp.gov/updates/rfcs/0006)
- [Basic text markdown on GitHub](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/discussions/18)
- PDF file:
  [rfc-0006-key-security-indicators.pdf](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0006-key-security-indicators.pdf)
- DOCX file:
  [rfc-0006-key-security-indicators.docx](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0006-key-security-indicators.docx)

## Discussion Requested

This draft standard is open for any public comment. FedRAMP encourages fast,
informal comments from any member of the public. The public may submit multiple
comments and may respond to other public comments. All comments from the public
sent via email will be made public.

The FedRAMP Automating Assessments Working Group will simultaneously host
discussions on potential best practices and implementation methods for
integration of Key Security Indicators into the FedRAMP 20x Phase One Pilot for
FedRAMP Low authorizations.
