# RFC-0007 Significant Change Notification Standard

> - Status: Open
> - Created By: FedRAMP PMO
> - Start Date: 2025-04-24
> - Closing Date: 2025-05-24
> - Short Name: rfc-0007-significant-change-notification

## Where to Comment

- Discussion Thread:
  [https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/discussions/19](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/discussions/19)
- Public Comment Form:
  [https://forms.gle/K4oqVGyyP3w2eiKx6](https://forms.gle/K4oqVGyyP3w2eiKx6)
- Email: pete@fedramp.gov with the subject "RFC-0007 Feedback"

## Summary

The Significant Change Notification Standard asserts that authorizations granted
to cloud service providers include the authority to make changes that are in the
best interest of agency customers without asking permission from an authorizing
official in advance, in most cases.

This draft standard establishes a tiered notification framework that
differentiates between adaptive changes (significant but routine) and
transformative changes (major functionality changes). Adaptive changes may be
made as appropriate without consulting with agency customers, while
transformative changes require consultation with agency customers in advance.
Cloud service providers are still expected to follow procedures in their
security plans and collaborate with third-party assessment organizations to
verify outcomes.

Changes that increase or decrease the impact level rating for the cloud service
(e.g. from low to moderate or from high to moderate) are not covered under the
Significant Change Notification Standard as these changes require
reauthorization.

## Motivation and Rotationale

The existing FedRAMP standard for Significant Change Requests creates a
devastating bottleneck that slows government adoption of new cloud technology
and features, raises costs for government customers by increasing the burden of
operating a cloud service for government customers, encourages the operation of
separate service instances for government customers, hinders agency sponsorship
of FedRAMP authorizations, and decreases the effective security of cloud
services by obstructing proactive innovation.

FedRAMP asserts that cloud service providers, supported by trusted third-party
assessment organizations, must be trusted to continuously improve their systems
responsibly. This draft standard acknowledges that cloud service offerings can
and should make significant changes without requesting federal agency review of
engineering decisions or third-party assessment. This change aligns with
guidance in OMB Circular A-130 and NIST SP 800-37 Rev 2 to substantially reduce
the burden of lead agency authorizing officials and reusing agency authorizing
officials by encouraging them to focus on their overall risk posture instead of
redundant reviews of complex engineering decisions.

Due to executive branch restrictions on the production of significant guidance
and policy materials, this draft proposes a basic standard that replaces the
previous Significant Change Process with a simple and reasonable approach that
can be applied by cloud service providers, third-party assessment organizations,
and agency officials. The Significant Change Notification Standard avoids
excessive detail identifying types of potential significant changes to support
FedRAMP’s ongoing shift from compliance-based decision making and assessment to
security-based decision making and assessment.

## Explanation

The full draft standard is approximately 5 pages and is available for review in
the following formats:

- Basic web formatting on fedramp.gov (below)
- Basic text markdown on GitHub
- PDF file: rfc-0007-significant-change-notification.pdf
- DOCX file: rfc-0007-significant-change-notification.docx

## Discussion Requested

This draft standard is open for any public comment. FedRAMP encourages fast,
informal comments from any member of the public. The public may submit multiple
comments and may respond to other public comments. All comments from the public
sent via email will be made public.

The FedRAMP Rev 5 Continuous Monitoring Working Group will simultaneously host
discussions on potential best practices and implementation of machine readable
Significant Change Notifications based on this draft standard.
