# RFC-0008 Continuous Reporting Standard

> - Status: Open
> - Created By: FedRAMP PMO
> - Start Date: 2025-05-09
> - Closing Date: 2025-06-09
> - Short Name: rfc-0008-continuous-reporting

## Where to Comment

- Discussion Thread: https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/discussions/27
- Public Comment Form: https://forms.gle/f5Aiu8chadAAQj8S6
- Email: pete@fedramp.gov with the subject "RFC-0008 Feedback"

## FedRAMP Guidance Types

- **Standards** are base requirements that can be applied in any environment and will change rarely
- **Best Practices** support standards with methods, techniques, or examples and may change often
- **Technical Assistance** supports standards with additional technical nuance to support decision making and may change often

## Summary

The Continuous Reporting Standard identifies Key Security Metrics that must be monitored by cloud service providers and made available to agencies and FedRAMP to maintain FedRAMP authorization. This standard is based on historical FedRAMP Rev 5 continuous monitoring standards that focused on direct scanning.

This standard also includes guidance on application, including requirements for how frequently Key Security Metrics should be reported. The standard does not propose specific formats or mechanisms for reporting this information at this time to encourage initial innovation by industry, but future updates may align towards best practices on presentation.

No action will be required of any cloud service provider without supporting guidance based on this FedRAMP Standard.

## Motivation

To ensure maximum reusability across agencies and encourage private sector innovation, continuous monitoring reporting must follow an objective data-driven approach that makes key security metrics easy for providers to collect and easy for agencies to monitor. 

Continuous Reporting should focus on information agencies need to know and will benefit from reviewing. The entire continuous monitoring and reporting process should encourage and empower engineering and security teams at providers to focus on maintaining and improving the security of their systems.

This standard begins a shift away from the government requiring cloud service providers to upload scan logs and create bespoke materials only for federal agencies. Reports following FedRAMP’s Continuous Reporting Standard should mostly reuse information already monitored by provider security teams and can be made available to both commercial and government customers via the same mechanisms.

## Explanation

The full draft technical assistance is approximately 5 pages and is available for review in the following formats:

- [Basic web formatting on fedramp.gov](https://fedramp.gov/updates/rfcs/0008)
- [Basic text markdown on GitHub](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/discussions/27)
- PDF file: [rfc-0008-continuous-reporting-standard.pdf](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0008-continuous-reporting-standard.pdf)
- DOCX file: [rfc-0008-continuous-reporting-standard.docx](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0008-continuous-reporting-standard.docx)

## Discussion Requested

This draft standard is open for any public comment. FedRAMP encourages fast, informal comments from any member of the public. The public may submit multiple comments and may respond to other public comments. All comments from the public sent via email will be made public.

The FedRAMP Rev 5 Continuous Monitoring Working Group will simultaneously host discussions on potential best practices and implementation of the Continuous Reporting Standard.

FedRAMP is particularly interested in comments regarding:

- The reporting requirements are intended to be reasonable for both providers and agencies, facilitating innovation and informed risk analysis and acceptance. Do they strike the right balance between security oversight and operational efficiency?
- This standard explicitly encourages that mitigated vulnerabilities be reported and tracked at their estimated risk rating after mitigation rather than their original risk rating. Is this a change in the right direction?
- This approach is intended to give agencies adequate visibility into the overall security posture of a cloud service offering. What additional information might agencies need to maintain their risk awareness?
- Standards will be supported separately by templates, best practices, technical assistance, and other materials. What materials might be prioritized for production to support this standard?


