# RFC-0011 FedRAMP Pilot Standard for Storing and Sharing Authorization Data

> - Status:
> - Created By: FedRAMP PMO
> - Start Date: 2025-05-23
> - Closing Date: 2025-06-22
> - Short Name: rfc–0011-standard-for-storing-and-sharing

## Where to Comment

- Discussion Forum: [https://github.com/FedRAMP/community/discussions/8](https://github.com/FedRAMP/community/discussions/8)
- Public Comment Form: [https://forms.gle/sZtXKVYesB7GRpak7](https://forms.gle/sZtXKVYesB7GRpak7)
- Email: pete@fedramp.gov with the subject "RFC-0011 Feedback"

## Summary

The FedRAMP Standard for Storing and Sharing Authorization Data outlines requirements for cloud service providers who wish to self-host FedRAMP related authorization data and package materials within their own managed services. Providers who self-host this authorization data, including continuous monitoring materials, would not need to upload materials to the FedRAMP Secure Repository.

This standard will be accompanied by an optional pilot phase to allow FedRAMP, cloud service providers, and agencies to learn directly how to best implement this process. Requirements are likely to change based on feedback and learnings during the pilot. More information on the pilot will be provided separately at fedramp.gov. The pilot will be announced during June of 2025.

## Motivation

FedRAMP has managed a centralized file repository that hosted most information about cloud service provider’s security plans for low and moderate FedRAMP authorizations in a single place for many years. The risks, complexity, and cost for managing a centralized repository is growing rapidly as FedRAMP scales past 400+ cloud services in the marketplace. This document-based sharing model must change so FedRAMP and cloud services can move increasingly towards relying on machine-readable information developed and shared via apis that facilitates automation.

Cloud service providers often provide trust centers or similar capabilities for commercial customers. These trust centers provide security information to potential and current customers, all controlled by the provider following standard commercial processes and procedures. These existing commercial practices should be reused to the greatest extent possible to ease the burden for both cloud service providers and agency customers.

This standard outlines the requirements that will underpin initial pilots for customer managed trust centers that include FedRAMP authorization data.

## Explanation

The full draft standard is approximately 5 pages and is available for review in the following formats:

- [Basic web formatting on fedramp.gov](https://fedramp.gov/updates/rfcs/0011)
- [Basic text markdown on GitHub](https://github.com/FedRAMP/community/discussions/8)
- PDF file: [0011-standard-for-storing-and-sharing.pdf](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0011-standard-for-storing-and-sharing.pdf)
- Word file: [0011-standard-for-storing-and-sharing.docx](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rfcs/raw/main/rfc/assets/0011-standard-for-storing-and-sharing.docx)

## Discussion Requested

This draft standard is open for any public comment. FedRAMP encourages fast, informal comments from any member of the public. The public may submit multiple comments and may respond to other public comments. All comments from the public sent via email will be made public.

The FedRAMP Rev5 working group will continue to host discussions on potential best practices and implementation associated with this standard as well as related pilot activities.


